Exercise 3

Description: This assignment has three parts: processing a csv file related to January-February period, 
processing a second csv file related to April-May period and comparing the two.

Part 1:
Input: No input from the user required. The input file name to use in the script is CitiBike- NYC-CitiBike-Jan_Feb2016.csv

Output: Skip a line/print a blank line, then print:
o These are the last five lines in the file:
 [5 lines of file]
 [Skip a line]
o The file has n1 lines. x of them have "Customer" as usertype, y have "Subscriber" as usertype. 
"Customer" are z% of the total

Procedure:
1. Open the file
2. For each line in the file
         a. Keep a count of the number of lines (this is n0) - Note: skip the header
         b. Keep a count of the number of lines with "Customer" as usertype (this is n1)
         c. Keep a count of the number of lines with "Subscriber" as usertype (this is n2)
         d. Print the last 5 lines
         
3. After processing the file:
         a. Calculate the z1 % of Customer
         b. Print: The file has n0 lines. Of those n1 have usertype as Customer, n2 have usertype as Subscriber. "Customer" are z1% of the total.
         
Part 2:
Input: No input from the user required. The input file name to use in the script is NYC-CitiBike-Apr_May2016.csv

Output: Similarly to Part 1: skip a line, then print:
o These are the first five lines in the file:
 [5 lines of file] (Note: skip the header):
 [Skip a line]
o The first file is (smaller or larger) than the second one. The percentage of Customer in the first file is 
(smaller or larger) than in the second one

Procedure:
1. Open the file
2. For each line in the file
 Keep a count of the number of lines (this is n3) - Note: skip the header
 Keep a count of the number of lines with "Customer" as usertype (this is n4)
 Keep a count of the number of lines with "Subscriber" as usertype (this is n5)
 Print the first 5 lines
3. After processing the file:
 Calculate the z2 % of Customer
 Print: The file has n3 lines, of which n4 have usertype as Customer, n5 have usertype as Subscriber.

Part 3:
Input: No input from the user required. Use the data from Part 1 and Part 2
Output: Comparison of the data in the 2 files. Considering the files are related to different periods, we want to compare them to better serve the customers in the different times of the year.
Procedure:
1. Check IF n0>n3:
 IF n0>n3, print: The Winter riders are more than the Spring
 else, print: The Spring riders are more than the Winter
2. Check IF z1>z2:
 IF z1>z2, print: During the Winter there are more Customers/non-Subscribers than in the Spring
 else, print: During the Spring there are more Customers/non-Subscribers than in the Winter
3. Write a 1 page interpretation. The interpretation would be a narrative describing/explaining in plain English the results of your Python script.
